As a Devloper faced 

Dealing with devlopers from offshore / issues? 
dealing with difficult people, 
dealing


 with buggy APIs from vendors. ( trade)

Designing and incorporating feedback from businees and cusotmers?
getting agreement on the requirements

Working with teams spread out globally. :

Working with such teams (that work in different time zones)
 involves hand-offs at the end of your shift and beginning of their shift. 
 You have to explain things ranging from business requirements, 
 design decisions and development decisions to details of coding, 
 modularization, unit test cases within a short couple of hours.


Challenges as technically leading has different issues deciding on right
technology stack, maintaining code quality, 
and delivery , 
ensuring right engineering practices are in place ,
coding standards benchmarks and 
quality checks as a leader, 


communication, abstraction, interface design,
 division of responsibility, testing discipline,
 and adaptability to ever-evolving requirements
 
---

Code review process :

Dcoumentation  - using 
and code comments(template), 
Code review with peer
beware the team context.
appropriate tests , making sure 80% covergae of the code.

Prod issue debug :
When things go wrong :

the golden rule is minimizing client impact.

even if it’s a “one line change”, the first thing to do is rollback.
 Go back to the previous working state. This is the quickest way to get clients back on a working version.
 
 breadth-first search before a depth-first search, to get rid of the top level nodes. What can I confirm using current resources?

Is the machine up?
Is the right code installed?
Is the config in place?
< Code specific configuration >, like is the routing in the code correct?
Is the schema version correct?
Then, get into the code.


I think three components make up monitoring:
 - logging, metrics, and alarms.
Logging in code, just like the human log, is an evolutionary process.

-------------
merge sort, quick sort

----------

Design questions :
Design a system which takes text, parses and gets related data from 3rd party web services. 
Eg: take city name and get weather and relaed info. such as news. 
What database schema would you use to store the data if you don't want to query it once you got the results.

-> ANS : Using distrbuted cache or ES to store the data , not saving the data in DB. since the data is more transational


Design a custom data structure (I don't remember the question properly). 
 the problem involves storing the data into objects and sorting them in an order so that you can retrieve it easily.   
 
-> ANS :  using comparator , with merge sort.

Can you give me a small way  to know whether an email is read by a recipient?   

->ANS : ReadReceiptReceivedListener, take the kafka event listner example.  


Swap two numbers

-ANS-> 
first = first - second;
        second = first + second;
        first = second - first;



 
